I had walked into that reading-room a
happy, healthy man.  I crawled out a decrepit wreck.

I went to my medical man.  He is an old chum of mine, and feels my pulse,
and looks at my tongue, and talks about the weather, all for nothing,
when I fancy I'm ill; so I thought I would do him a good turn by going to
him now.  "What a doctor wants," I said, "is practice.  He shall have me.
He will get more practice out of me than out of seventeen hundred of your
ordinary, commonplace patients, with only one or two diseases each."  So
I went straight up and saw him, and he said:

"Well, what's the matter with you?"

I said:

"I will not take up your time, dear boy, with telling you what is the
matter with me.  Life is brief, and you might pass away before I had
finished.  But I will tell you what is _not_ the matter with me.  I have
not got housemaid's knee.  Why I have not got housemaid's knee, I cannot
tell you; but the fact remains that I have not got it.  Everything else,
however, I _have_ got."

And I told him how I came to discover it all.

Then he opened me and looked down me, and clutched hold of my wrist, and
then he hit me over the chest when I wasn't expecting it - a cowardly
thing to do, I call it - and immediately afterwards butted me with the
side of his head.  After that, he sat down and wrote out a prescription,
and folded it up and gave it me, and I put it in my pocket and went out.

I did not open it.  I took it to the nearest chemist's, and handed it in.
The man read it, and then handed it back.

He said he didn't keep it.

I said:

"You are a chemist?"

He said:

"I am a chemist.  If I was a co-operative stores and family hotel
combined, I might be able to oblige you.  Being only a chemist hampers
me."

I read the prescription.  It ran:

   "1 lb. beefsteak, with
    1 pt. bitter beer
                                                            every 6 hours.

    1 ten-mile walk every morning.

    1 bed at 11 sharp every night.

    And don't stuff up your head with things you don't understand."


I followed the directions, with the happy result - speaking for
myself - that my life was preserved, and is still going on.

In the present instance, going back to the liver-pill circular, I had the
symptoms, beyond all mistake, the chief among them being "a general
disinclination to work of any kind."

What I suffer in that way no tongue can tell.  From my earliest infancy I
have been a martyr to it.  As a boy, the disease hardly ever left me for
a day.  They did not know, then, that it was my liver.  Medical science
was in a far less advanced state than now, and they used to put it down
to laziness.

